docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat-ui/chat-message-list/typing-indicator-view-properties.md, before:


### `typingAnimationView`

The animated view with three dots indicating that someone is typing.

``` swift
open private(set) lazy var typingAnimationView: TypingAnimationView = components
        .typingAnimationView
        .init()
        .withoutAutoresizingMaskConstraints
```

### `informationLabel`

Label describing who is currently typing
`User is typing`
`User and 1 more is typing`
`User and 3 more are typing`

``` swift
open private(set) lazy var informationLabel: UILabel = UILabel().withoutAutoresizingMaskConstraints
```

### `componentContainerView`

StackView holding `typingIndicatorView` and `informationLabel`

``` swift
open private(set) lazy var componentContainerView: ContainerStackView = ContainerStackView().withoutAutoresizingMaskConstraints
```

## Methods

### `setUp()`

``` swift
override open func setUp() 
```

### `setUpLayout()`

``` swift
override open func setUpLayout() 
```

### `setUpAppearance()`

``` swift
override open func setUpAppearance() 
```

### `updateContent()`

``` swift
override open func updateContent()

Commit message:

[CIS-990] Extract Message List Header Component (#1294)
* Change `TitleContainerView` -> `HeaderTitleView`

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to handle the message list header

It uses the `HeaderTitleView` as a sub component, but is the message list header that handles the logic.

* Add better comments to channel no-op events

* Fix `ChatMessageListHeaderView` displaying wrong member status

* Revert the naming of `TitleContainerView`

* Refactor `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to include channelController

* Fix message list header view not centered

* Remove `bottomAnchorView` from `SuggestionVC`

It was not used at all

* Make`SuggestionVC` a child of Composer instead of Message List

* Move `TitleContainerView` snapshosts

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` Docs

* Fix `ChatMessageListVC` Tests

* update docs

* update docs

* Update CHANGELOG.md

* Refactor Slack Sample App with new Header

* Refactor Messenger App with new Header

* Refactor iMessage Demo App with new Header

* Rename `ChatMessageListHeaderView` -> `ChatChannelHeaderView`

* Write `ChatChannelHeaderView` Docs

* Create the timer only if the interval is bigger than zero

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` component

* Update channel header view docs

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` documentation

* Hide the ChatThreadHeaderView customization

* Finnish chat channel header docs

* Create timer on setup

* Update content of `ChatChannelHeaderView` when channel created too

Co-authored-by: Tommaso Barbugli <tbarbugli@gmail.com>

docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat-ui/chat-message-list/typing-indicator-view-properties.md, after:


### `content`

The string which will be shown next to animated indication that user is typing.

``` swift
open var content: String? 
```

### `typingAnimationView`

The animated view with three dots indicating that someone is typing.

``` swift
open private(set) lazy var typingAnimationView: TypingAnimationView = components
        .typingAnimationView
        .init()
        .withoutAutoresizingMaskConstraints
```

### `informationLabel`

Label describing who is currently typing
`User is typing`
`User and 1 more is typing`
`User and 3 more are typing`

``` swift
open private(set) lazy var informationLabel: UILabel = UILabel().withoutAutoresizingMaskConstraints
```

### `componentContainerView`

StackView holding `typingIndicatorView` and `informationLabel`

``` swift
open private(set) lazy var componentContainerView: ContainerStackView = ContainerStackView().withoutAutoresizingMaskConstraints
```

## Methods

### `setUp()`

``` swift
override open func setUp() 
```

### `setUpLayout()`

``` swift
override open func setUpLayout() 
```

### `setUpAppearance()`

``` swift
override open func setUpAppearance() 
```

### `updateContent()`

``` swift
override open func updateContent()
