docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat/controllers/search-controllers/chat-user-search-controller-properties.md, before:


### `client`

The `ChatClient` instance this controller belongs to.

``` swift
public let client: _ChatClient<ExtraData>
```

### `users`

The users matching the query of this controller.

``` swift
public var users: LazyCachedMapCollection<_ChatUser<ExtraData.User>> 
```

To observe changes of the users, set your class as a delegate of this controller or use the provided
`Combine` publishers.

## Methods

### `setDelegate(_:)`

Sets the provided object as a delegate of this controller.

``` swift
public func setDelegate<Delegate: _ChatUserSearchControllerDelegate>(_ delegate: Delegate)
        where Delegate.ExtraData == ExtraData 
```

> 

#### Parameters

  - delegate: The object used as a delegate. It's referenced weakly, so you need to keep the object alive if you want keep receiving updates.

### `search(term:completion:)`

Searches users for the given term.

``` swift
public func search(term: String?, completion: ((_ error: Error?) -> Void)? = nil) 
```

When this function is called, `users` property of this controller will refresh with new users matching the term.
The delegate function `didChangeUsers` will also be called.

> 

#### Parameters

  - term: Search term. If empty string or `nil`, all users are fetched.
  - completion: Called when the controller has finished fetching remote data. If the data fetching fails, the error variable contains more details about the problem.

### `loadNextUsers(limit:completion:)`

Loads next users from backend.

``` swift
public func loadNextUsers(
        limit: Int = 25,
        completion: ((Error?) -> Void)? = nil
    ) 
```

#### Parameters

  - limit: Limit for page size.

Commit message:

[CIS-990] Extract Message List Header Component (#1294)
* Change `TitleContainerView` -> `HeaderTitleView`

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to handle the message list header

It uses the `HeaderTitleView` as a sub component, but is the message list header that handles the logic.

* Add better comments to channel no-op events

* Fix `ChatMessageListHeaderView` displaying wrong member status

* Revert the naming of `TitleContainerView`

* Refactor `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to include channelController

* Fix message list header view not centered

* Remove `bottomAnchorView` from `SuggestionVC`

It was not used at all

* Make`SuggestionVC` a child of Composer instead of Message List

* Move `TitleContainerView` snapshosts

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` Docs

* Fix `ChatMessageListVC` Tests

* update docs

* update docs

* Update CHANGELOG.md

* Refactor Slack Sample App with new Header

* Refactor Messenger App with new Header

* Refactor iMessage Demo App with new Header

* Rename `ChatMessageListHeaderView` -> `ChatChannelHeaderView`

* Write `ChatChannelHeaderView` Docs

* Create the timer only if the interval is bigger than zero

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` component

* Update channel header view docs

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` documentation

* Hide the ChatThreadHeaderView customization

* Finnish chat channel header docs

* Create timer on setup

* Update content of `ChatChannelHeaderView` when channel created too

Co-authored-by: Tommaso Barbugli <tbarbugli@gmail.com>

docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat/controllers/search-controllers/chat-user-search-controller-properties.md, after:


### `client`

The `ChatClient` instance this controller belongs to.

``` swift
public let client: _ChatClient<ExtraData>
```

### `users`

The users matching the query of this controller.

``` swift
public var users: LazyCachedMapCollection<_ChatUser<ExtraData.User>> 
```

To observe changes of the users, set your class as a delegate of this controller or use the provided
`Combine` publishers.

## Methods

### `setDelegate(_:)`

Sets the provided object as a delegate of this controller.

``` swift
public func setDelegate<Delegate: _ChatUserSearchControllerDelegate>(_ delegate: Delegate)
        where Delegate.ExtraData == ExtraData 
```

> 

#### Parameters

  - delegate: The object used as a delegate. It's referenced weakly, so you need to keep the object alive if you want keep receiving updates.

### `search(term:completion:)`

Searches users for the given term.

``` swift
public func search(term: String?, completion: ((_ error: Error?) -> Void)? = nil) 
```

When this function is called, `users` property of this controller will refresh with new users matching the term.
The delegate function `didChangeUsers` will also be called.

> 

#### Parameters

  - term: Search term. If empty string or `nil`, all users are fetched.
  - completion: Called when the controller has finished fetching remote data. If the data fetching fails, the error variable contains more details about the problem.

### `search(query:completion:)`

Searches users for the given query.

``` swift
public func search(query: _UserListQuery<ExtraData.User>, completion: ((_ error: Error?) -> Void)? = nil) 
```

When this function is called, `users` property of this controller will refresh with new users matching the term.
The delegate function `didChangeUsers` will also be called.

> 

#### Parameters

  - query: Search query.
  - completion: Called when the controller has finished fetching remote data. If the data fetching fails, the error variable contains more details about the problem.

### `loadNextUsers(limit:completion:)`

Loads next users from backend.

``` swift
public func loadNextUsers(
        limit: Int = 25,
        completion: ((Error?) -> Void)? = nil
    ) 
```

#### Parameters

  - limit: Limit for page size.
