docusaurus/docs/iOS/basics/integration.md, before:

---
title: Integration
---

# Integration

To integrate Stream Chat in your app, you can use one of the following dependency managers:

- [**Swift Package Manager**](#swift-package-manager)
- [**CocoaPods**](#cocoapods)
- [**Carthage**](#carthage)

We also provide pre-built XCFramework support, read more [here](#xcframeworks).

### Swift Package Manager

Open your `.xcodeproj`, select the option "Add Package..." in the File menu, and paste the URL for the library you want to integrate:

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swift`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swift`
- For the SwiftUI components (**StreamChatSwiftUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swiftui`

<details><summary>➤ Do you want to use <b>XCFrameworks</b>? (Click to read more)</summary>
<p>

:::caution
Our XCFrameworks are built with **Swift 5.5**. In order to use them you need **Xcode 13** or above
:::

You can learn more about [our Module Stable XCFrameworks here](#xcframeworks)

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swift-spm`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swift-spm`

</p>
</details>


After introducing the desired url, Xcode will look for the Packages available in the repository and automatically select the latest version tagged. Press next and Xcode will download the dependency.

![Screenshot shows an Xcode screen selecting a dependency version and an Xcode screen downloading that dependency](../assets/spm-01.png)

Based on the repository you select you can find 3 different targets: StreamChat, StreamChatUI and StreamChatSwiftUI.

- If you want to use the UIKit components, select **StreamChatUI**.
- If you want to use the SwiftUI components, select **StreamChatSwiftUI**.
- If you don't need any UI components, select **StreamChat**.

![Screenshot shows an Xcode screen with dependency targets to be selected](../assets/spm-02.png)

After you press finish, it's done!

:::caution
Because StreamChat SDKs have to be distributed with its resources, the minimal Swift version requirement for this installation method is 5.3. If you need to support older Swift version, please install it using CocoaPods.
:::

_More information about Swift Package Manager [can be found here](https://www.swift.org/package-manager/)_

### CocoaPods

In your project's `Podfile`, add one of these options

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChat', '~> 4.0.0'`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChatUI', '~> 4.0.0'`
- For the SwiftUI components (**StreamChatSwiftUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChatSwiftUI', '~> 4.0.0'`

<details><summary>➤ Do you want to use <b>XCFrameworks</b>? (Click to read more)</summary>
<p>

:::caution
Our XCFrameworks are built with **Swift 5.5**. In order to use them you need **Xcode 13** or above
:::

You can learn more about [our Module Stable XCFrameworks here](#xcframeworks)

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChat-XCFramework', '~> 4.6.0'`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChatUI-XCFramework', '~> 4.6.0'`

</p>
</details>

Example: If you want to use the UIKit components, it should look similar the snippet below.

```ruby
target 'MyProject' do
  use_frameworks!

  # Pods for MyProject
  pod 'StreamChatUI', '~> 4.0.0'
end
```

StreamChatUI and StreamChatSwiftUI pod will automatically include the StreamChat dependency. If you want just the StreamChat dependency, without the UI components, use StreamChat as shown above.

Now that we’ve modified our Podfile, let’s go ahead and install the project dependencies via the terminal with one simple command:

```bash
pod install --repo-update
```

The above command will generate the **MyProject.xcworkspace** file automatically.

With our workspace now containing our Pods project with dependencies, as well as our original project, let’s go ahead and move over to Xcode to complete the process.

_More information about CocoaPods [can be found here](https://cocoapods.org/)._

### Carthage

In your project's `Cartfile`, add one of these options

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `github "getstream/stream-chat-swift" ~> 4.6.0`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `github "getstream/stream-chat-swift" ~> 4.6.0`

:::note
Our SwiftUI components library is not yet available using Carthage, please use Swift Package Manager or CocoaPods.
:::


<details><summary>➤ Do you want to use <b>XCFrameworks</b>? (Click to read more)</summary>
<p>

:::caution
Our XCFrameworks are built with **Swift 5.5**. In order to use them you need **Xcode 13** or above
:::

You can learn more about [our Module Stable XCFrameworks here](#xcframeworks)

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GetStream/stream-chat-swift/main/StreamChatArtifacts.json" ~> 4.6`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GetStream/stream-chat-swift/main/StreamChatArtifacts.json" ~> 4.6`

</p>
</details>

Now that we’ve modified our Cartfile, let’s go ahead and install the project dependencies via the terminal with one simple command:

```bash
carthage update --use-xcframeworks
```

This command will create pre-built XCFrameworks built from our source code. You now need to add those to your project.

Open the `Carthage/Build` folder that has been created in the root of your project, and drag and drop the frameworks you want to use. Those should be added to the "Frameworks, Libraries, and Embedded Content" section under General settings:

![Screenshot shows XCFrameworks being draged into Xcode](../assets/carthage-drag.png)

Make sure you select **Embed & Sign** under "Embed" options if you are adding Stream libraries to an app target. If not, use **Do Not Embed**

![Screenshot shows Embed and Sign being the option selected](../assets/carthage-embed-and-sign.png)

_More information about Carthage [can be found here](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)._

## XCFrameworks

In an effort to have [**Module Stability**](https://www.swift.org/blog/library-evolution/), we have started distributing **pre-built XCFrameworks** starting ***4.6.0***

:::info
Our XCFrameworks are built with Swift 5.5. In order to use them you need Xcode 13 or above.
:::

An **XCFramework** is a package that contains binaries for multiple architectures/platforms, but only the particular slice of that package required for your architecture/platform will be used.

**Benefits of XCFrameworks:**
- Conveniently import a single package
- Supports all platforms and architectures (We support iOS in StreamChatUI and iOS/macOS in StreamChat)
- No more fat binaries. No more architectures stripping

> Does this mean that from now on, I will need to import Stream manually?

**No**, [all the known dependency managers support this format](#), and this most likely happens without you even noticing.


**Module Stability:**

While ABI Stability was allowing us to have code written with different Swift versions in the same runtime, Module Stability enables us to use a library built in a particular version of the compiler running in a different version of the compiler (Think of a framework that is built using Swift X to work on an app built with Swift X+1).

Commit message:

Fix Release creation/automation issues (#1720)
* Make sure LICENSE is present in the zipped artifacts for CocoaPods not to complain

* Update Carthage OSS integration documentation to require --no-use-binaries

* Remove redundant tag creation executions in Fastfile's publish_release

* Improve order of podspecs publishing to avoid waiting too long

* Temporarily remove osx references in StreamChat-XCFramework

* Outline XCFrameworks as preferred integration method for Carthage

* Update fastlane/Fastfile

Co-authored-by: Boris Bielik <h3sperian@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: Boris Bielik <h3sperian@gmail.com>

docusaurus/docs/iOS/basics/integration.md, after:

---
title: Integration
---

# Integration

To integrate Stream Chat in your app, you can use one of the following dependency managers:

- [**Swift Package Manager**](#swift-package-manager)
- [**CocoaPods**](#cocoapods)
- [**Carthage**](#carthage)

We also provide pre-built XCFramework support, read more [here](#xcframeworks).

### Swift Package Manager

Open your `.xcodeproj`, select the option "Add Package..." in the File menu, and paste the URL for the library you want to integrate:

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swift`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swift`
- For the SwiftUI components (**StreamChatSwiftUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swiftui`

<details><summary>➤ Do you want to use <b>XCFrameworks</b>? (Click to read more)</summary>
<p>

:::caution
Our XCFrameworks are built with **Swift 5.5**. In order to use them you need **Xcode 13** or above
:::

You can learn more about [our Module Stable XCFrameworks here](#xcframeworks)

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swift-spm`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `https://github.com/getstream/stream-chat-swift-spm`

</p>
</details>


After introducing the desired url, Xcode will look for the Packages available in the repository and automatically select the latest version tagged. Press next and Xcode will download the dependency.

![Screenshot shows an Xcode screen selecting a dependency version and an Xcode screen downloading that dependency](../assets/spm-01.png)

Based on the repository you select you can find 3 different targets: StreamChat, StreamChatUI and StreamChatSwiftUI.

- If you want to use the UIKit components, select **StreamChatUI**.
- If you want to use the SwiftUI components, select **StreamChatSwiftUI**.
- If you don't need any UI components, select **StreamChat**.

![Screenshot shows an Xcode screen with dependency targets to be selected](../assets/spm-02.png)

After you press finish, it's done!

:::caution
Because StreamChat SDKs have to be distributed with its resources, the minimal Swift version requirement for this installation method is 5.3. If you need to support older Swift version, please install it using CocoaPods.
:::

_More information about Swift Package Manager [can be found here](https://www.swift.org/package-manager/)_

### CocoaPods

In your project's `Podfile`, add one of these options

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChat', '~> 4.0.0'`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChatUI', '~> 4.0.0'`
- For the SwiftUI components (**StreamChatSwiftUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChatSwiftUI', '~> 4.0.0'`

<details><summary>➤ Do you want to use <b>XCFrameworks</b>? (Click to read more)</summary>
<p>

:::caution
Our XCFrameworks are built with **Swift 5.5**. In order to use them you need **Xcode 13** or above
:::

You can learn more about [our Module Stable XCFrameworks here](#xcframeworks)

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChat-XCFramework', '~> 4.6.0'`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `pod 'StreamChatUI-XCFramework', '~> 4.6.0'`

</p>
</details>

Example: If you want to use the UIKit components, it should look similar the snippet below.

```ruby
target 'MyProject' do
  use_frameworks!

  # Pods for MyProject
  pod 'StreamChatUI', '~> 4.0.0'
end
```

StreamChatUI and StreamChatSwiftUI pod will automatically include the StreamChat dependency. If you want just the StreamChat dependency, without the UI components, use StreamChat as shown above.

Now that we’ve modified our Podfile, let’s go ahead and install the project dependencies via the terminal with one simple command:

```bash
pod install --repo-update
```

The above command will generate the **MyProject.xcworkspace** file automatically.

With our workspace now containing our Pods project with dependencies, as well as our original project, let’s go ahead and move over to Xcode to complete the process.

_More information about CocoaPods [can be found here](https://cocoapods.org/)._

### Carthage

If you are using **Swift 5.5 / Xcode 13** or above, the recommended method for Carthage is to use **pre-built XCFrameworks**.

:::note
Our SwiftUI components library is not yet available using Carthage, please use Swift Package Manager or CocoaPods.
:::

<details><summary>➤ Using pre-built <b>XCFrameworks</b></summary>
<p>

:::caution
Our XCFrameworks are built with **Swift 5.5**. In order to use them you need **Xcode 13** or above
:::

You can learn more about [our Module Stable XCFrameworks here](#xcframeworks)

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GetStream/stream-chat-swift/main/StreamChatArtifacts.json" ~> 4.6`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GetStream/stream-chat-swift/main/StreamChatArtifacts.json" ~> 4.6`

Now that we’ve modified our Cartfile, let’s go ahead and install the project dependencies via the terminal with one simple command:

```bash
carthage update --use-xcframeworks
```

The previous command will download pre-built XCFrameworks. You now need to add those to your project. Keep reading.

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>➤ Building from source <b>(OSS)</b></summary>
<p>

In your project's `Cartfile`, add one of these options

- For the LLC (**StreamChat**) use:
  - `github "getstream/stream-chat-swift" ~> 4.6.0`
- For the UIKit components (**StreamChatUI**, which depends on **StreamChat**) use:
  - `github "getstream/stream-chat-swift" ~> 4.6.0`

Now that we’ve modified our Cartfile, let’s go ahead and install the project dependencies via the terminal with one simple command:

```bash
carthage update --use-xcframeworks --no-use-binaries --platform iOS
```

The previous command will create pre-built XCFrameworks built from our source code (This might take a while ⏱). You now need to add those to your project. Keep reading.

</p>
</details>

Open the `Carthage/Build` folder that has been created in the root of your project, and drag and drop the frameworks you want to use. Those should be added to the "Frameworks, Libraries, and Embedded Content" section under General settings:

![Screenshot shows XCFrameworks being draged into Xcode](../assets/carthage-drag.png)

Make sure you select **Embed & Sign** under "Embed" options if you are adding Stream libraries to an app target. If not, use **Do Not Embed**

![Screenshot shows Embed and Sign being the option selected](../assets/carthage-embed-and-sign.png)

_More information about Carthage [can be found here](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)._

## XCFrameworks

In an effort to have [**Module Stability**](https://www.swift.org/blog/library-evolution/), we have started distributing **pre-built XCFrameworks** starting ***4.6.0***

:::info
Our XCFrameworks are built with Swift 5.5. In order to use them you need Xcode 13 or above.
:::

An **XCFramework** is a package that contains binaries for multiple architectures/platforms, but only the particular slice of that package required for your architecture/platform will be used.

**Benefits of XCFrameworks:**
- Conveniently import a single package
- Supports all platforms and architectures (We support iOS in StreamChatUI and iOS/macOS in StreamChat)
- No more fat binaries. No more architectures stripping

> Does this mean that from now on, I will need to import Stream manually?

**No**, [all the known dependency managers support this format](#), and this most likely happens without you even noticing.


**Module Stability:**

While ABI Stability was allowing us to have code written with different Swift versions in the same runtime, Module Stability enables us to use a library built in a particular version of the compiler running in a different version of the compiler (Think of a framework that is built using Swift X to work on an app built with Swift X+1).
