docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat/models/attachments/any-attachment-payload.md, before:

---
title: AnyAttachmentPayload
---

A type-erased type that wraps either a local file URL that has to be uploaded
and attached to the message OR a custom payload which the message attachment
should contain.

``` swift
public struct AnyAttachmentPayload 
```

## Initializers

### `init(payload:)`

Creates an instance of `AnyAttachmentPayload` with the given payload.

``` swift
init<Payload: AttachmentPayload>(payload: Payload) 
```

If attached to the new message the attachment with the given payload will be immediately
available on `ChatMessage` with the `uploadingState == nil` since it doesn't require prior
uploading.

#### Parameters

  - payload: The payload to have the message attachment with.

### `init(localFileURL:attachmentType:)`

Creates an instance of `AnyAttachmentPayload` with the URL referencing to a local file.

``` swift
init(localFileURL: URL, attachmentType: AttachmentType) throws 
```

The resulting attachment will have `ImageAttachmentPayload` if `attachmentType == .image`.
If the type is different from `.image` the attachment will have payload of `FileAttachmentPayload`
type.

If attached to the new message the attachment with the given payload will be immediately
available on `ChatMessage` with the `uploadingState` reflecting the file uploading progress.

> 

#### Parameters

  - localFileURL: The local URL referencing to the file.
  - attachmentType: The type of resulting attachment exposed on the message.

#### Throws

The error if `localFileURL` is not the file URL.

## Properties

### `type`

A type of attachment that will be created when the message is sent.

``` swift
public let type: AttachmentType
```

### `payload`

A payload that will exposed on attachment when the message is sent.

``` swift
public let payload: Encodable?
```

### `localFileURL`

A URL referencing to the local file that should be uploaded.

``` swift
public let localFileURL: URL?
```

Commit message:

[CIS-990] Extract Message List Header Component (#1294)
* Change `TitleContainerView` -> `HeaderTitleView`

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to handle the message list header

It uses the `HeaderTitleView` as a sub component, but is the message list header that handles the logic.

* Add better comments to channel no-op events

* Fix `ChatMessageListHeaderView` displaying wrong member status

* Revert the naming of `TitleContainerView`

* Refactor `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to include channelController

* Fix message list header view not centered

* Remove `bottomAnchorView` from `SuggestionVC`

It was not used at all

* Make`SuggestionVC` a child of Composer instead of Message List

* Move `TitleContainerView` snapshosts

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` Docs

* Fix `ChatMessageListVC` Tests

* update docs

* update docs

* Update CHANGELOG.md

* Refactor Slack Sample App with new Header

* Refactor Messenger App with new Header

* Refactor iMessage Demo App with new Header

* Rename `ChatMessageListHeaderView` -> `ChatChannelHeaderView`

* Write `ChatChannelHeaderView` Docs

* Create the timer only if the interval is bigger than zero

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` component

* Update channel header view docs

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` documentation

* Hide the ChatThreadHeaderView customization

* Finnish chat channel header docs

* Create timer on setup

* Update content of `ChatChannelHeaderView` when channel created too

Co-authored-by: Tommaso Barbugli <tbarbugli@gmail.com>

docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat/models/attachments/any-attachment-payload.md, after:

---
title: AnyAttachmentPayload
---

A type-erased type that wraps either a local file URL that has to be uploaded
and attached to the message OR a custom payload which the message attachment
should contain.

``` swift
public struct AnyAttachmentPayload 
```

## Initializers

### `init(payload:)`

Creates an instance of `AnyAttachmentPayload` with the given payload.

``` swift
init<Payload: AttachmentPayload>(payload: Payload) 
```

If attached to the new message the attachment with the given payload will be immediately
available on `ChatMessage` with the `uploadingState == nil` since it doesn't require prior
uploading.

#### Parameters

  - payload: The payload to have the message attachment with.

### `init(localFileURL:attachmentType:extraData:)`

Creates an instance of `AnyAttachmentPayload` with the URL referencing to a local file.

``` swift
init(
        localFileURL: URL,
        attachmentType: AttachmentType,
        extraData: Encodable? = nil
    ) throws 
```

The resulting attachment will have `ImageAttachmentPayload` if `attachmentType == .image`.
The resulting attachment will have `VideoAttachmentPayload` if `attachmentType == .video`.
The resulting attachment will have `FileAttachmentPayload` if `attachmentType == .file`.
If the type is different than `.image`/`.video`/`.file` the `ClientError.UnsupportedUploadableAttachmentType` error will be thrown.

If attached to the new message the attachment with the given payload will be immediately
available on `ChatMessage` with the `uploadingState` reflecting the file uploading progress.

> 

> 

#### Parameters

  - localFileURL: The local URL referencing to the file.
  - attachmentType: The type of resulting attachment exposed on the message.
  - extraData: An extra data that should be added to attachment.

#### Throws

The error if `localFileURL` is not the file URL or if `extraData` can not be represented as a dictionary.

## Properties

### `type`

A type of attachment that will be created when the message is sent.

``` swift
public let type: AttachmentType
```

### `payload`

A payload that will exposed on attachment when the message is sent.

``` swift
public let payload: Encodable
```

### `localFileURL`

A URL referencing to the local file that should be uploaded.

``` swift
public let localFileURL: URL?
```
