docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat/config/chat-client-config.md, before:

---
title: ChatClientConfig
---

A configuration object used to configure a `ChatClient` instance.

``` swift
public struct ChatClientConfig 
```

The default configuration can be changed the following way:

``` 
  var config = ChatClientConfig()
  config.isLocalStorageEnabled = false
  config.channel.keystrokeEventTimeout = 15
```

## Initializers

### `init(apiKey:)`

``` swift
public init(apiKey: APIKey) 
```

### `init(apiKeyString:)`

Creates a new instance of `ChatClientConfig`.

``` swift
public init(apiKeyString: String) 
```

> 

#### Parameters

  - apiKeyString: The string with API key of the chat app the `ChatClient` connects to.

## Properties

### `apiKey`

The `APIKey` unique for your chat app.

``` swift
public let apiKey: APIKey
```

The API key can be obtained by registering on \[our website\](https://getstream.io/chat/).

### `localStorageFolderURL`

The folder `ChatClient` uses to store its local cache files.

``` swift
public var localStorageFolderURL: URL? 
```

### `baseURL`

The datacenter `ChatClient` uses for connecting.

``` swift
public var baseURL: BaseURL = .usEast
```

### `isLocalStorageEnabled`

Determines whether `ChatClient` caches the data locally. This makes it possible to browse the existing chat data also
when the internet connection is not available.

``` swift
public var isLocalStorageEnabled: Bool = true
```

### `shouldFlushLocalStorageOnStart`

If set to `true`, `ChatClient` resets the local cache on the start.

``` swift
public var shouldFlushLocalStorageOnStart: Bool = false
```

You should set `shouldFlushLocalStorageOnStart = true` every time the changes in your code makes the local cache invalid.

For example, when you change your custom `ExtraData` types, the cached data can't be decoded, and the cache has to be
flushed.

### `localCaching`

Advanced settings for the local caching and model serialization.

``` swift
public var localCaching 
```

### `isClientInActiveMode`

Flag for setting a ChatClient instance in connection-less mode.
A connection-less client is not able to connect to websocket and will not
receive websocket events. It can still observe and mutate database.
This flag is automatically set to `false` for app extensions
**Warning**:​ There should be at max 1 active client at the same time, else it can lead to undefined behavior.

``` swift
public var isClientInActiveMode: Bool
```

### `shouldConnectAutomatically`

If set to `true` the `ChatClient` will automatically establish a web-socket
connection to listen to the updates when `reloadUserIfNeeded` is called.

``` swift
public var shouldConnectAutomatically = true
```

If set to `false` the connection won't be established automatically
but has to be initiated manually by calling `connect`.

Is `true` by default.

### `staysConnectedInBackground`

If set to `true`, the `ChatClient` will try to stay connected while app is backgrounded.
If set to `false`, websocket disconnects immediately when app is backgrounded.

``` swift
public var staysConnectedInBackground = true
```

This flag aims to reduce unnecessary reconnections while quick app switches,
like when a user just checks a notification or another app.
`ChatClient` starts a background task to keep the connection alive,
and disconnects when background task expires.
`ChatClient` tries to stay connected while in background up to 5 minutes.
Usually, disconnection occurs around 2-3 minutes.

> 

Default value is `true`

### `customCDNClient`

Creates a new instance of `ChatClientConfig`.

``` swift
public var customCDNClient: CDNClient?
```

Allows to inject a custom API client for uploading attachments, if not specified `StreamCDNClient` is used

#### Parameters

  - apiKey: The API key of the chat app the `ChatClient` connects to.

Commit message:

[CIS-990] Extract Message List Header Component (#1294)
* Change `TitleContainerView` -> `HeaderTitleView`

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to handle the message list header

It uses the `HeaderTitleView` as a sub component, but is the message list header that handles the logic.

* Add better comments to channel no-op events

* Fix `ChatMessageListHeaderView` displaying wrong member status

* Revert the naming of `TitleContainerView`

* Refactor `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to include channelController

* Fix message list header view not centered

* Remove `bottomAnchorView` from `SuggestionVC`

It was not used at all

* Make`SuggestionVC` a child of Composer instead of Message List

* Move `TitleContainerView` snapshosts

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` Docs

* Fix `ChatMessageListVC` Tests

* update docs

* update docs

* Update CHANGELOG.md

* Refactor Slack Sample App with new Header

* Refactor Messenger App with new Header

* Refactor iMessage Demo App with new Header

* Rename `ChatMessageListHeaderView` -> `ChatChannelHeaderView`

* Write `ChatChannelHeaderView` Docs

* Create the timer only if the interval is bigger than zero

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` component

* Update channel header view docs

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` documentation

* Hide the ChatThreadHeaderView customization

* Finnish chat channel header docs

* Create timer on setup

* Update content of `ChatChannelHeaderView` when channel created too

Co-authored-by: Tommaso Barbugli <tbarbugli@gmail.com>

docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat/config/chat-client-config.md, after:

---
title: ChatClientConfig
---

A configuration object used to configure a `ChatClient` instance.

``` swift
public struct ChatClientConfig 
```

The default configuration can be changed the following way:

``` 
  var config = ChatClientConfig()
  config.isLocalStorageEnabled = false
  config.channel.keystrokeEventTimeout = 15
```

## Initializers

### `init(apiKey:)`

``` swift
public init(apiKey: APIKey) 
```

### `init(apiKeyString:)`

Creates a new instance of `ChatClientConfig`.

``` swift
public init(apiKeyString: String) 
```

> 

#### Parameters

  - apiKeyString: The string with API key of the chat app the `ChatClient` connects to.

## Properties

### `apiKey`

The `APIKey` unique for your chat app.

``` swift
public let apiKey: APIKey
```

The API key can be obtained by registering on \[our website\](https://getstream.io/chat/).

### `localStorageFolderURL`

The folder `ChatClient` uses to store its local cache files.

``` swift
public var localStorageFolderURL: URL? 
```

### `baseURL`

The datacenter `ChatClient` uses for connecting.

``` swift
public var baseURL: BaseURL = .usEast
```

### `isLocalStorageEnabled`

Determines whether `ChatClient` caches the data locally. This makes it possible to browse the existing chat data also
when the internet connection is not available.

``` swift
public var isLocalStorageEnabled: Bool = true
```

### `shouldFlushLocalStorageOnStart`

If set to `true`, `ChatClient` resets the local cache on the start.

``` swift
public var shouldFlushLocalStorageOnStart: Bool = false
```

You should set `shouldFlushLocalStorageOnStart = true` every time the changes in your code makes the local cache invalid.

For example, when you change your custom `ExtraData` types, the cached data can't be decoded, and the cache has to be
flushed.

### `localCaching`

Advanced settings for the local caching and model serialization.

``` swift
public var localCaching 
```

### `isClientInActiveMode`

Flag for setting a ChatClient instance in connection-less mode.
A connection-less client is not able to connect to websocket and will not
receive websocket events. It can still observe and mutate database.
This flag is automatically set to `false` for app extensions
**Warning**:​ There should be at max 1 active client at the same time, else it can lead to undefined behavior.

``` swift
public var isClientInActiveMode: Bool
```

### `shouldConnectAutomatically`

If set to `true` the `ChatClient` will automatically establish a web-socket
connection to listen to the updates when `reloadUserIfNeeded` is called.

``` swift
@available(
        *,
        deprecated,
        message: "This flag has no effect anymore. The flow for setting and for connecting the user has been unified to the `connectUser` set of methods."
    )
    public var shouldConnectAutomatically = true
```

If set to `false` the connection won't be established automatically
but has to be initiated manually by calling `connect`.

Is `true` by default.

### `staysConnectedInBackground`

If set to `true`, the `ChatClient` will try to stay connected while app is backgrounded.
If set to `false`, websocket disconnects immediately when app is backgrounded.

``` swift
public var staysConnectedInBackground = true
```

This flag aims to reduce unnecessary reconnections while quick app switches,
like when a user just checks a notification or another app.
`ChatClient` starts a background task to keep the connection alive,
and disconnects when background task expires.
`ChatClient` tries to stay connected while in background up to 5 minutes.
Usually, disconnection occurs around 2-3 minutes.

> 

Default value is `true`

### `customCDNClient`

Creates a new instance of `ChatClientConfig`.

``` swift
public var customCDNClient: CDNClient?
```

Allows to inject a custom API client for uploading attachments, if not specified `StreamCDNClient` is used

#### Parameters

  - apiKey: The API key of the chat app the `ChatClient` connects to.

### `maxAttachmentSize`

Returns max possible attachment size in bytes.
The value is taken from custom `maxAttachmentSize` type custom `CDNClient` type.
The default value is 20 MiB.

``` swift
public var maxAttachmentSize: Int64 
```

### `deletedMessagesVisibility`

Specifies the visibility of deleted messages.

``` swift
public var deletedMessagesVisibility: DeletedMessageVisibility = .visibleForCurrentUser
```
