docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat-ui/chat-message-list/chat-message/chat-message-layout-options.md, before:

---
title: ChatMessageLayoutOptions
---

Describes the layout of base message content view.

``` swift
public struct ChatMessageLayoutOptions: OptionSet, Hashable 
```

## Inheritance

`CustomStringConvertible`, `Hashable`, `OptionSet`

## Initializers

### `init(rawValue:)`

``` swift
public init(rawValue: Int) 
```

## Properties

### `rawValue`

``` swift
public let rawValue: Int
```

### `flipped`

If set all the content will have trailing alignment. By default, the message sent by the current user is flipped.

``` swift
static let flipped 
```

### `bubble`

If set the message content will be wrapped into a bubble.

``` swift
static let bubble 
```

### `continuousBubble`

If set the message bubble will not have a `tail` (rendered by default as a non rounded corner)

``` swift
static let continuousBubble 
```

### `avatarSizePadding`

If set the message content will have an offset (from the `trailing` edge if `flipped` is set otherwise from `leading`)
equal to the avatar size.

``` swift
static let avatarSizePadding 
```

### `avatar`

If set the message author avatar will be shown.

``` swift
static let avatar 
```

### `timestamp`

If set the message timestamp will be shown.

``` swift
static let timestamp 
```

### `authorName`

If set the message author name will be shown in metadata.

``` swift
static let authorName 
```

### `text`

If set the message text content will be shown.

``` swift
static let text 
```

### `quotedMessage`

If set the message quoted by the current message will be shown.

``` swift
static let quotedMessage 
```

### `threadInfo`

If set the message thread replies information will be shown.

``` swift
static let threadInfo 
```

### `errorIndicator`

If set the error indicator will be shown.

``` swift
static let errorIndicator 
```

### `reactions`

If set the reactions added to the message will be shown.

``` swift
static let reactions 
```

### `onlyVisibleForYouIndicator`

If set the indicator saying that the message is visible for current user only will be shown.

``` swift
static let onlyVisibleForYouIndicator 
```

### `description`

Returns all options the current option set consists of separated by `-` character.

``` swift
public var description: String 
```

Commit message:

[CIS-990] Extract Message List Header Component (#1294)
* Change `TitleContainerView` -> `HeaderTitleView`

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to handle the message list header

It uses the `HeaderTitleView` as a sub component, but is the message list header that handles the logic.

* Add better comments to channel no-op events

* Fix `ChatMessageListHeaderView` displaying wrong member status

* Revert the naming of `TitleContainerView`

* Refactor `ChatMessageListHeaderView` to include channelController

* Fix message list header view not centered

* Remove `bottomAnchorView` from `SuggestionVC`

It was not used at all

* Make`SuggestionVC` a child of Composer instead of Message List

* Move `TitleContainerView` snapshosts

* Add `ChatMessageListHeaderView` Docs

* Fix `ChatMessageListVC` Tests

* update docs

* update docs

* Update CHANGELOG.md

* Refactor Slack Sample App with new Header

* Refactor Messenger App with new Header

* Refactor iMessage Demo App with new Header

* Rename `ChatMessageListHeaderView` -> `ChatChannelHeaderView`

* Write `ChatChannelHeaderView` Docs

* Create the timer only if the interval is bigger than zero

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` component

* Update channel header view docs

* Add `ChatThreadHeaderView` documentation

* Hide the ChatThreadHeaderView customization

* Finnish chat channel header docs

* Create timer on setup

* Update content of `ChatChannelHeaderView` when channel created too

Co-authored-by: Tommaso Barbugli <tbarbugli@gmail.com>

docusaurus/docs/iOS/common-content/reference-docs/stream-chat-ui/chat-message-list/chat-message/chat-message-layout-options.md, after:

---
title: ChatMessageLayoutOptions
---

Describes the layout of base message content view.

``` swift
public struct ChatMessageLayoutOptions: OptionSet, Hashable 
```

## Inheritance

`CustomStringConvertible`, `Hashable`, `OptionSet`

## Initializers

### `init(rawValue:)`

``` swift
public init(rawValue: Int) 
```

## Properties

### `rawValue`

``` swift
public let rawValue: Int
```

### `flipped`

If set all the content will have trailing alignment. By default, the message sent by the current user is flipped.

``` swift
static let flipped 
```

### `bubble`

If set the message content will be wrapped into a bubble.

``` swift
static let bubble 
```

### `continuousBubble`

If set the message bubble will not have a `tail` (rendered by default as a non rounded corner)

``` swift
static let continuousBubble 
```

### `avatarSizePadding`

If set the message content will have an offset (from the `trailing` edge if `flipped` is set otherwise from `leading`)
equal to the avatar size.

``` swift
static let avatarSizePadding 
```

### `avatar`

If set the message author avatar will be shown.

``` swift
static let avatar 
```

### `timestamp`

If set the message timestamp will be shown.

``` swift
static let timestamp 
```

### `authorName`

If set the message author name will be shown in metadata.

``` swift
static let authorName 
```

### `text`

If set the message text content will be shown.

``` swift
static let text 
```

### `quotedMessage`

If set the message quoted by the current message will be shown.

``` swift
static let quotedMessage 
```

### `threadInfo`

If set the message thread replies information will be shown.

``` swift
static let threadInfo 
```

### `errorIndicator`

If set the error indicator will be shown.

``` swift
static let errorIndicator 
```

### `reactions`

If set the reactions added to the message will be shown.

``` swift
static let reactions 
```

### `onlyVisibleForYouIndicator`

If set the indicator saying that the message is visible for current user only will be shown.

``` swift
static let onlyVisibleForYouIndicator 
```

### `centered`

If set all the content will have centered alignment. By default, the system messages are centered.

``` swift
static let centered 
```

`flipped` and `centered` are mutually exclusive. Only one of these two should be used at a time.
If both are specified in the options, `centered` is prioritized

### `description`

Returns all options the current option set consists of separated by `-` character.

``` swift
public var description: String 
```
